1.git config
Sets configuration values for your user name, email, gpg key, preferred diff algorithm, file formats and more. 

git config --global user.name "ralf1997"
git config --global user.email "rachitgoelchd@gmail.com"

2.git init
Initializes a git repository – creates the initial .git directory in a new or in an existing project. 

3.git clone
Creates a GIT repository copy from a remote source. Also adds the original location as a remote so you can fetch from it again and push to it if you have permissions. 
Example:

4.git add
Adds files changes in your working directory to your index. 

5.git rm
Removes files from your index and your working directory so they will not be tracked. 

6.git commit
Takes all of the changes written in the index, creates a new commit object pointing to it and sets the branch to point to that new commit.

7.git status
Shows you the status of files in the index versus the working directory. It will list out files that are untracked, modified, and staged. 

8.git branch
Lists existing branches, including remote branches if ‘-a’ is provided. Creates a new branch if a branch name is provided. 

9.git merge
Merges one or more branches into your current branch and automatically creates a new commit if there are no conflicts. 

10.git reset
Resets your index and working directory to the state of your last commit. 

11.git tag
Tags a specific commit with a simple, human readable handle that never moves. 

12.git pull
Fetches the files from the remote repository and merges it with your local one. 

13.git push
Pushes all the modified local objects to the remote repository and advances its branches. 

14.git remote
Shows all the remote versions of your repository. 

15.git log
Shows a listing of commits on a branch including the corresponding details. 

16.git log commit

17.git diff
Generates patch files or statistics of differences between paths or files in your git repository, or your index or your working directory. 

18.git archive
Creates a tar or zip file including the contents of a single tree from your repository. 

19.git gc
Garbage collector for your repository. Optimizes your repository. Should be run occasionally. 

20.git fsck
Does an integrity check of the Git file system, identifying corrupted objects.

21.git prune
Removes objects that are no longer pointed to by any object in any reachable branch.





































